When implementing a deep neural network,
one of the debugging tools I often use to
check the correctness of my code
is to pull a piece of paper, and
just work through the dimensions and
matrix I'm working with.
So let me show you how to do that,
since I hope this will make it easier for
you to implement your deep nets as well.
Capital L is equal to 5, right, counting
quickly, not counting the input layer,
there are five layers here, so
four hidden layers and one output layer.
And so
if you implement forward propagation,
the first step will be z1 = w1x + b1.
So let's ignore the bias terms b for
now, and focus on the parameters w.
Now this first hidden layer has three
hidden units, so this is layer 0,
layer 1, layer 2, layer 3,
layer 4, and layer 5.
So using the notation we had from
the previous video, we have that n1,
which is the number of hidden
units in layer 1, is equal to 3.
And here we would have
the n2 is equal to 5,
n3 is equal to 4, n4 is equal to 2,
and n5 is equal to 1.
And so far we've only seen neural networks
with a single output unit, but in later
courses, we'll talk about neutral networks
with multiple output units as well.
And finally, for the input layer,
we also have n0 = nx = 2.
So now, let's think about
the dimensions of z, w, and x.
z is the vector of activations for
this first hidden layer, so
z is going to be 3 by 1,
it's going to be a 3-dimensional vector.
So I'm going to write it a n1
by 1-dimensional vector,
n1 by 1-dimensional matrix,
all right, so 3 by 1 in this case.
Now how about the input features x,
x, we have two input features.
So x is in this example 2 by 1, but
more generally, it would be n0 by 1.
So what we need is for
the matrix w1 to be something that when we
multiply an n0 by 1 vector to it,
we get an n1 by 1 vector, right?
So you have sort of a three
dimensional vector equals
something times a two dimensional vector.
And so
by the rules of matrix multiplication,
this has got be a 3 by 2 matrix.
Right, because a 3 by 2 matrix
times a 2 by 1 matrix, or
times the 2 by 1 vector,
that gives you a 3 by 1 vector.
And more generally, this is going to
be an n1 by n0 dimensional matrix.
So what we figured out here is that
the dimensions of w1 has to be n1 by n0.
And more generally, the dimensions
of wL must be nL by nL minus 1.
So for example, the dimensions of w2,
for this, it would have to be 5 by 3,
or it would be n2 by n1.
Because we're going to compute
z2 as w2 times a1, and again,
let's ignore the bias for now.
And so this is going to be 3 by 1,
and we need this to be 5 by 1, and so
this had better be 5 by 3.
And similarly, w3 is really
the dimension of the next layer,
comma, the dimension
of the previous layer,
so this is going to be 4 by 5, w4
Is going to be 2 by 4, and
w5 is going to be 1 by 2, okay?
So the general formula
to check is that when
you're implementing the matrix for
layer L,
that the dimension of that
matrix be nL by nL-1.
Now let's think about
the dimension of this vector b.
This is going to be a 3 by 1 vector,
so you have to add that to another
3 by 1 vector in order to get
a 3 by 1 vector as the output.
Or in this example, we need to add this,
this is going to be 5 by 1,
so there's going to be
another 5 by 1 vector.
In order for
the sum of these two things I have in
the boxes to be itself a 5 by 1 vector.
So the more general rule is that
in the example on the left,
b1 is n1 by 1, right, that's 3 by 1,
and in the second example,
this is n2 by 1.
And so the more general case is that
bL should be nL by 1 dimensional.
So hopefully these two equations help
you to double check that the dimensions
of your matrices w, as well as your
vectors p, are the correct dimensions.
And of course,
if you're implementing back propagation,
then the dimensions of dw should
be the same as the dimension of w.
So dw should be the same dimension as w,
and db should be the same dimension as b.
Now the other key set of quantities
whose dimensions to check are these z,
x, as well as a of L,
which we didn't talk too much about here.
But because z of L is equal to g
of a of L, applied element wise,
then z and a should have the same
dimension in these types of networks.
Now let's see what happens when you have
a vectorized implementation that looks at
multiple examples at a time.
Even for a vectorized implementation,
of course, the dimensions of wb,
dw, and db will stay the same.
But the dimensions of z,
a, as well as x will
change a bit in your
vectorized implementation.
So previously,
we had z1 = w1x+b1
where this was n1 by 1,
this was n1 by n0,
x was n0 by 1, and b was n1 by 1.
Now, in a vectorized
implementation, you
would have z1 = w1x + b1.
Where now z1 is obtained
by taking the z1 for
the individual examples,
so there's z11, z12,
up to z1m, and stacking them as follows,
and this gives you z1.
So the dimension of z1 is that,
instead of being n1 by 1,
it ends up being n1 by m, and
m is the size you're trying to set.
The dimensions of w1 stays the same,
so it's still n1 by n0.
And x, instead of being n0 by 1 is now
all your training examples
stacked horizontally.
So it's now n 0 by m, and so
you notice that when you take
a n1 by n0 matrix and
multiply that by an n0 by m matrix.
That together they actually give you an n1
by m dimensional matrix, as expected.
Now, the final detail is that
b1 is still n1 by 1, but
when you take this and add it to b,
then through Python broadcasting,
this will get duplicated and turn n1 by
m matrix, and then add the element wise.
So on the previous slide, we talked
about the dimensions of wb, dw, and db.
Here, what we see is that whereas zL as
well as aL are of dimension nL by 1,
we have now instead that
ZL as well AL are nL by m.
And a special case of this
is when L is equal to 0,
in which case A0, which is equal to just
your training set input features X,
is going to be equal to
n0 by m as expected.
And of course when you're
implementing this in backpropagation,
we'll see later you,
end up computing dZ as well as dA.
And so these will of course have
the same dimension as Z and A.
So I hope the little exercise we went
through helps clarify the dimensions that
the various matrices
you'd be working with.
When you implement backpropagation for
a deep neural network, so long as you work
through your code and make sure that all
the matrices' dimensions are consistent.
That will usually help,
it'll go some ways toward eliminating
some cause of possible bugs.
So I hope that exercise for figuring out
the dimensions of various matrices you'll
been working with is helpful.
When you implement a deep neural network,
if you keep straight
the dimensions of these various matrices
and vectors you're working with.
Hopefully they'll help you eliminate
some cause of possible bugs,
it certainly helps me get my code right.
So next, we've now seen some of
the mechanics of how to do forward
propagation in a neural network.
But why are deep neural networks so
effective, and
why do they do better than
shallow representations?
Let's spend a few minutes in
the next video to discuss that.